Instructions for delegating and undelegating voting power in OpenGov (#4347)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-opengov.md

2. Cancelling dangerous or malicious referenda
3. Electing the Technical Committee

### Multirole Delegation

In OpenGov, an alternate strategy was required to replace the Council in its previous duties as a
body delegated by voters to compensate for the fact that many choose to not take part in day-to-day
of governance. OpenGov builds on the **Vote Delegation** feature from v1 where a voter can choose to
delegate their voting power to another voter in the system. It does so by improving a feature known
as **Multirole Delegation**, where voters can specify a different delegate for every class of

> referendum in the system. Any delegation is done per track and accounts choose to select different
> delegates (or no delegation) for each track.
> 
> So for example, a voter could delegate one entity for managing a less potent referenda class, choose
> a different delegate for a different class with more powerful consequences and still retain full
> voting power over any remaining classes.
> 
> Occasional delegation and undelegation calls are fee-free: creating incentive for token holders to
> use this feature and ensuring that wallets can do it “by default” without any cost to end-users. It
> is worth noting that a user delegating their voting power does not imply that the delegate will have
> control over the funds of the delegating account: they can vote with a user's voting power: but they
> won't be able to transfer your balance, nominate a different set of validators or execute any call
> other than voting on the defined call/s by the user.
> 
> With the new delegation features, the goal is to ensure the required turnouts for proposals to be
> enacted are reached while maintaining the anonymity of voters and keeping the overall design
> censorship-free.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
referendum in the system. Delegation can be done per track, and accounts can choose to select different
delegates (or no delegation) for each track.

For example, a voter could delegate one entity for managing a less potent referenda class, choose
a different delegate for a different class with more powerful consequences and still retain full
voting power over any remaining classes.

Occasional delegation and undelegation calls are fee-free: creating an incentive for token holders to
use this feature and ensure that wallets can do it “by default” without any cost to end-users. It
is worth noting that a user delegating their voting power does not imply that the delegate will have
control over the funds of the delegating account: they can vote with a user's voting power: but they
won't be able to transfer your balance, nominate a different set of validators or execute any call
other than voting on the defined call/s by the user.

With the new delegation features, the goal is to ensure the required turnouts for proposals to be
enacted are reached while maintaining the anonymity of voters and keeping the overall design
censorship-free.
```

For a step-by-step outline of how to delegate voting power in OpenGov, check out the

> [Delegating Voting Power](./../maintain//maintain-guides-opengov.md#delegating-voting-power) section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Delegating Voting Power](./../maintain/maintain-guides-opengov.md#delegating-voting-power) section
```

> on the [OpenGov Maintenance](./../maintain//maintain-guides-opengov.md) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the [OpenGov Maintenance](./../maintain/maintain-guides-opengov.md) page.
```

With the new delegation features, the goal is to ensure the required turnouts for proposals to be
enacted are reached while maintaining the anonymity of voters and keeping the overall design
censorship-free.

The following steps outline how to delegate voting power in OpenGov:

1. Navigate to the [referenda tab](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/referenda)
2. Click the `Delegate` icon in the top-right corner
   ![Delegate Window](./../assets/governance/Delegate-Window-Kusama.png)
3. Ensure the `using the selected account` field lists the account you wish to apply delegation to
4. Select `convictionVoting` from the `submit the following extrinsic` dropdown
5. Next, select the appropriate `submission track` that you wish to delegate (or select the option
   `apply delegation to all tracks`)

   - `0` - Root
   - `1` - Whitelisted Caller
   - `10` - Staking Admin
   - `11` - Treasurer
   - `12` - Lease Admin
   - `13` - Fellowship Admin
   - `14` - General Admin
   - `15` - Auction Admin
   - `20` - Referendum Canceller
   - `21` - Referendum Killer
   - `30` - Small Tipper
   - `31` - Big Tipper
   - `32` - Small Spender
   - `33` - Medium Spender

>    - `34` - Big Spender

Author: It would be informative to pull these value directly from on-chain and display the additional metadata for each via a React component.  I created #4346 for this.

Reviewer: Yeah, I like the idea!

Author: completed in #4378
